<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI: What Happened to Fenn</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">What Happened to Fenn</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Fenn was up first. Many years’ experience of being tackled at full speed on the football field had taught him how to fall. The stranger, whose football days, if he had ever had any, were long past, had gone down with a crash, and remained on the pavement, motionless. Fenn was conscious of an ignoble impulse to fly without stopping to chat about the matter. Then he was seized with a gruesome fear that he had injured the man seriously, which vanished when the stranger sat up. His first words were hardly of the sort that one would listen to from choice. His first printable expression, which did not escape him until he had been speaking some time, was in the nature of an official bulletin.</p>
			<p>“You’ve broken my neck,” said he.</p>
			<p>Fenn renewed his apologies and explanations.</p>
			<p>“Your watch!” cried the man in a high, cracked voice. “Don’t stand there talking about your watch, but help me up. What do I care about your watch? Why don’t you look where you are going to? Now then, now then, don’t hoist me as if I were a hod of bricks. That’s right. Now help me indoors, and go away.”</p>
			<p>Fenn supported him while he walked lamely into the house. He was relieved to find that there was nothing more the matter with him than a shaking and a few bruises.</p>
			<p>“Door on the left,” said the injured one.</p>
			<p>Fenn led him down the passage and into a small sitting-room. The gas was lit, and as he turned it up he saw that the stranger was a man well advanced in years. He had grey hair that was almost white. His face was not a pleasant one. It was a mass of lines and wrinkles from which a physiognomist would have deduced uncomplimentary conclusions as to his character. Fenn had little skill in that way, but he felt that for some reason he disliked the man, whose eyes, which were small and extraordinarily bright, gave rather an eerie look to his face.</p>
			<p>“Go away, go away,” he kept repeating savagely from his post on the shabby sofa on which Fenn had deposited him.</p>
			<p>“But are you all right? Can’t I get you something?” asked the Eckletonian.</p>
			<p>“Go away, go away,” repeated the man.</p>
			<p>Conversation on these lines could never be really attractive. Fenn turned to go. As he closed the door and began to feel his way along the dark passage, he heard the key turn in the lock behind him. The man could not, he felt, have been very badly hurt if he were able to get across the room so quickly. The thought relieved him somewhat. Nobody likes to have the maiming even of the most complete stranger on his mind. The sensation of relief lasted possibly three seconds. Then it flashed upon him that in the excitement of the late interview he had forgotten his cap. That damaging piece of evidence lay on the table in the sitting-room, and between him and it was a locked door.</p>
			<p>He groped his way back, and knocked. No sound came from the room.</p>
			<p>“I say,” he cried, “you might let me have my cap. I left it on the table.”</p>
			<p>No reply.</p>
			<p>Fenn half thought of making a violent assault on the door. He refrained on reflecting that it would be useless. If he could break it open⁠—which, in all probability, he could not⁠—there would be trouble such as he had never come across in his life. He was not sure it would not be an offence for which he would be rendered liable to fine or imprisonment. At any rate, it would mean the certain detection of his visit to the town. So he gave the thing up, resolving to return on the morrow and reopen negotiations. For the present, what he had to do was to get safely back to his house. He had lost his watch, his cap with his name in it was in the hands of an evil old man who evidently bore him a grudge, and he had to run the gauntlet of three housemasters and get to bed via a study-window. Few people, even after the dullest of plays, have returned from the theatre so disgusted with everything as did Fenn. Reviewing the situation as he ran with long, easy strides over the road that led to Kay’s, he found it devoid of any kind of comfort. Unless his mission in quest of the cap should prove successful, he was in a tight place.</p>
			<p>It is just as well that the gift of second sight is accorded to but few. If Fenn could have known at this point that his adventures were only beginning, that what had taken place already was but as the overture to a drama, it is possible that he would have thrown up the sponge for good and all, entered Kay’s by way of the front door⁠—after knocking up the entire household⁠—and remarked, in answer to his housemaster’s excited questions, “Enough! Enough! I am a victim of Fate, a Toad beneath the Harrow. Sack me tomorrow, if you like, but for goodness’ sake let me get quietly to bed now.”</p>
			<p>As it was, not being able to “peep with security into futurity,” he imagined that the worst was over.</p>
			<p>He began to revise this opinion immediately on turning in at Kay’s gate. He had hardly got halfway down the drive when the front door opened and two indistinct figures came down the steps. As they did so his foot slipped off the grass border on which he was running to deaden the noise of his steps, and grated sharply on the gravel.</p>
			<p>“What’s that?” said a voice. The speaker was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay.</p>
			<p>“What’s what?” replied a second voice which he recognised as <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mulholland’s.</p>
			<p>“Didn’t you hear a noise?”</p>
			<p>“ ‘I heard the water lapping on the crag,’ ” replied <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mulholland, poetically.</p>
			<p>“It was over there,” persisted <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay. “I am certain I heard something⁠—positively certain, Mulholland. And after that burglary at the school house⁠—”</p>
			<p>He began to move towards the spot where Fenn lay crouching behind a bush. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mulholland followed, mildly amused. They were a dozen yards away when Fenn, debating in his mind whether it would not be better⁠—as it would certainly be more dignified⁠—for him to rise and deliver himself up to justice instead of waiting to be discovered wallowing in the damp grass behind a laurel bush, was aware of something soft and furry pressing against his knuckles. A soft purring sound reached his ears.</p>
			<p>He knew at once who it was⁠—Thomas Edward, the matron’s cat, ever a staunch friend of his. Many a time had they taken tea together in his study in happier days. The friendly animal had sought him out in his hiding-place, and was evidently trying to intimate that the best thing they could do now would be to make a regular night of it.</p>
			<p>Fenn, as I have said, liked and respected Thomas. In ordinary circumstances he would not have spoken an unfriendly word to him. But things were desperate now, and needed remedies to match.</p>
			<p>Very softly he passed his hand down the delighted animal’s back until he reached his tail. Then, stifling with an effort all the finer feelings which should have made such an act impossible, he administered so vigorous a tweak to that appendage that Thomas, with one frenzied yowl, sprang through the bush past the two masters and vanished at full speed into the opposite hedge.</p>
			<p>“My goodness!” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, starting back.</p>
			<p>It was a further shock to Fenn to find how close he was to the laurel.</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Goodness me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, what was that?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was the cat,’ ”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p class="continued">chanted <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mulholland, who was in poetical vein after the theatre.</p>
			<p>“It was a cat!” gasped <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay.</p>
			<p>“So I am disposed to imagine. What lungs! We shall be having the <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">R.S.P.C.A.</abbr> down on us if we aren’t careful. They must have heard that noise at the headquarters of the Society, wherever they are. Well, if your zeal for big game hunting is satisfied, and you don’t propose to follow the vocalist through that hedge, I think I will be off. Good night. Good piece, wasn’t it?”</p>
			<p>“Excellent. Good night, Mulholland.”</p>
			<p>“By the way, I wonder if the man who wrote it is a relation of our Fenn. It may be his brother⁠—I believe he writes. You probably remember him when he was here. He was before my time. Talking of Fenn, how do you find the new arrangement answer? Is Kennedy an improvement?”</p>
			<p>“Kennedy,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, “is a well-meaning boy, I think. Quite well-meaning. But he lacks ability, in my opinion. I have had to speak to him on several occasions on account of disturbances amongst the juniors. Once I found two boys actually fighting in the junior dayroom. I was very much annoyed about it.”</p>
			<p>“And where was Kennedy while this was going on? Was he holding the watch?”</p>
			<p>“The watch?” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, in a puzzled tone of voice. “Kennedy was over at the gymnasium when it occurred.”</p>
			<p>“Then it was hardly his fault that the fight took place.”</p>
			<p>“My dear Mulholland, if the head of a house is efficient, fights should be impossible. Even when he is not present, his influence, his prestige, so to speak, should be sufficient to restrain the boys under him.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mulholland whistled softly.</p>
			<p>“So that’s your idea of what the head of your house should be like, is it? Well, I know of one fellow who would have been just your man. Unfortunately, he is never likely to come to school at Eckleton.”</p>
			<p>“Indeed?” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, with interest. “Who is that? Where did you meet him? What school is he at?”</p>
			<p>“I never said I had met him. I only go by what I have heard of him. And as far as I know, he is not at any school. He was a gentleman of the name of Napoleon Bonaparte. He might just have been equal to the arduous duties which devolve upon the head of your house. Goodnight.”</p>
			<p>And Fenn heard his footsteps crunch the gravel as he walked away. A minute later the front door shut, and there was a rattle. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay had put the chain up and retired for the night.</p>
			<p>Fenn lay where he was for a short while longer. Then he rose, feeling very stiff and wet, and crept into one of the summerhouses which stood in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay’s garden. Here he sat for an hour and a half, at the end of which time, thinking that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay must be asleep, he started out to climb into the house.</p>
			<p>His study was on the first floor. A high garden-seat stood directly beneath the window and acted as a convenient ladder. It was easy to get from this on to the window-ledge. Once there he could open the window, and the rest would be plain sailing.</p>
			<p>Unhappily, there was one flaw in his scheme. He had conceived that scheme in the expectation that the window would be as he had left it.</p>
			<p>But it was not.</p>
			<p>During his absence somebody had shot the bolt. And, try his hardest, he could not move the sash an inch.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
