<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI: The Raid on the Guard-Tent</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Raid on the Guard-Tent</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Wren and Billy Silver had fallen out over a question of space. It was Silver’s opinion that Wren’s nest ought to have been built a foot or two further to the left. He stated baldly that he had not room to breathe, and requested the redheaded one to ease off a point or so in the direction of his next-door neighbour. Wren had refused, and, after a few moments’ chatty conversation, smote William earnestly in the wind. Trouble had begun upon the instant. It had ceased almost as rapidly owing to interruptions from without, but the truce had been merely temporary. They continued the argument outside the tent at five-thirty the next morning, after the reveille had sounded, amidst shouts of approval from various shivering mortals who were tubbing preparatory to embarking on the labours of the day.</p>
			<p>A brisk first round had just come to a conclusion when Walton lounged out of the tent, yawning.</p>
			<p>Walton proceeded to separate the combatants. After which he rebuked Billy Silver with a swagger-stick. Wren’s share in the business he overlooked. He was by way of being a patron of Wren’s, and he disliked Billy Silver, partly for his own sake and partly because he hated his brother, with whom he had come into contact once or twice during his career at Eckleton, always with unsatisfactory results.</p>
			<p>So Walton dropped on to Billy Silver, and Wren continued his toilet rejoicing.</p>
			<p>Camp was beginning the strenuous life now. Tent after tent emptied itself of its occupants, who stretched themselves vigorously, and proceeded towards the tubbing-ground, where there were tin baths for those who cared to wait until the same were vacant, and a good, honest pump for those who did not. Then there was that unpopular job, the piling of one’s bedding outside the tent, and the rolling up of the tent curtains. But these unpleasant duties came to an end at last, and signs of breakfast began to appear.</p>
			<p>Breakfast gave Kennedy his first insight into life in camp. He happened to be tent-orderly that day, and it therefore fell to his lot to join the orderlies from the other tents in their search for the Eckleton rations. He returned with a cargo of bread (obtained from the quartermaster), and, later, with a great tin of meat, which the cookhouse had supplied, and felt that this was life. Hitherto breakfast had been to him a thing of white cloths, tables, and food that appeared from nowhere. This was the first time he had ever tracked his food to its source, so to speak, and brought it back with him. After breakfast, when he was informed that, as tent-orderly for the day, it was his business to wash up, he began to feel as if he were on a desert island. He had never quite realised before what washing-up implied, and he was conscious of a feeling of respect for the servants at Blackburn’s, who did it every day as a matter of course, without complaint. He had had no idea before this of the intense stickiness of a jammy plate.</p>
			<p>One day at camp is much like another. The schools opened the day with parade drill at about eight o’clock, and, after an instruction series of “changing direction half-left in column of double companies,” and other pleasant movements of a similar nature, adjourned for lunch. Lunch was much like breakfast, except that the supply of jam was cut off. The people who arrange these things⁠—probably the War Office, or <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brodrick, or someone⁠—have come to the conclusion that two pots of jam per tent are sufficient for breakfast and lunch. The unwary devour theirs recklessly at the earlier meal, and have to go jamless until tea at six o’clock, when another pot is served out.</p>
			<p>The afternoon at camp is perfect or otherwise, according to whether there is a four o’clock field-day or not. If there is, there are more manoeuvrings until teatime, and the time is spent profitably, but not so pleasantly as it might be. If there is no field-day, you can take your time about your bathe in Cove Reservoir. And a really satisfactory bathe on a hot day should last at least three hours. Kennedy and Jimmy Silver strolled off in the direction of the Reservoir as soon as they felt that they had got over the effects of the beef, potatoes, and ginger-beer which a generous commissariat had doled out to them for lunch. It was a glorious day, and bathing was the only thing to do for the next hour or so. Stump-cricket, that fascinating sport much indulged in in camp, would not be at its best until the sun had cooled off a little.</p>
			<p>After a pleasant half hour in the mud and water of the Reservoir, they lay on the bank and watched the rest of the schools take their afternoon dip. Kennedy had laid in a supply of provisions from the stall which stood at the camp end of the water. Neither of them felt inclined to move.</p>
			<p>“This <em>is</em> decent,” said Kennedy, wriggling into a more comfortable position in the long grass. “Hullo!”</p>
			<p>“What’s up?” inquired Jimmy Silver, lazily.</p>
			<p>He was almost asleep.</p>
			<p>“Look at those idiots. They’re certain to get spotted.”</p>
			<p>Jimmy Silver tilted his hat off his face, and sat up.</p>
			<p>“What’s the matter? Which idiot?”</p>
			<p>Kennedy pointed to a bush on their right. Walton and Perry were seated beside it. Both were smoking.</p>
			<p>“Oh, that’s all right,” said Silver. “Masters never come to Cove Reservoir. It’s a sort of unwritten law. They’re rotters to smoke, all the same. Certain to get spotted some day.⁠ ⁠… Not worth it.⁠ ⁠… Spoils lungs.⁠ ⁠… Beastly bad⁠ ⁠… training.”</p>
			<p>He dozed off. The sun was warm, and the grass very soft and comfortable. Kennedy turned his gaze to the Reservoir again. It was no business of his what Walton and Perry did.</p>
			<p>Walton and Perry were discussing ways and means. The conversation changed as they saw Kennedy glance at them. They were the sort of persons who feel a vague sense of injury when anybody looks at them, perhaps because they feel that those whose attention is attracted to them must say something to their discredit when they begin to talk about them.</p>
			<p>“There’s that beast Kennedy,” said Walton. “I can’t stick that man. He’s always hanging round the house. What he comes for, I can’t make out.”</p>
			<p>“Pal of Fenn’s,” suggested Perry.</p>
			<p>“He hangs on to Fenn. I bet Fenn bars him really.”</p>
			<p>Perry doubted this in his innermost thoughts, but it was not worth while to say so.</p>
			<p>“Those Blackburn chaps,” continued Walton, reverting to another grievance, “will stick on no end of side next term about that cup. They wouldn’t have had a look in if Kay hadn’t given Fenn that extra. Kay ought to be kicked. I’m hanged if I’m going to care what I do next term. Somebody ought to do something to take it out of Kay for getting his own house licked like that.”</p>
			<p>Walton spoke as if the line of conduct he had mapped out for himself would be a complete reversal of his customary mode of life. As a matter of fact, he had never been in the habit of caring very much what he did.</p>
			<p>Walton’s last remarks brought the conversation back to where it had been before the mention of Kennedy switched it off on to new lines. Perry had been complaining that he thought camp a fraud, that it was all drilling and getting up at unearthly hours. He reminded Walton that he had only come on the strength of the latter’s statement that it would be a rag. Where did the rag come in? That was what Perry wanted to know.</p>
			<p>“When it’s not a ghastly sweat,” he concluded, “it’s slow. Like it is now. Can’t we do something for a change?”</p>
			<p>“As a matter of fact,” said Walton, “nearly all the best rags are played out. A chap at a crammer’s told me last holidays that when he was at camp he and some other fellows loosed the ropes of the guard-tent. He said it was grand sport.”</p>
			<p>Perry sat up.</p>
			<p>“That’s the thing,” he said, excitedly. “Let’s do that. Why not?”</p>
			<p>“It’s beastly risky,” objected Walton.</p>
			<p>“What’s that matter? They can’t do anything, even if they spot us.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all you know. We should get beans.”</p>
			<p>“Still, it’s worth risking. It would be the biggest rag going. Did the chap tell you how they did it?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Walton, becoming animated as he recalled the stirring tale, “they bagged the sentry. Chucked a cloth or something over his head, you know. Then they shoved him into the ditch, and one of them sat on him while the others loosed the ropes. It took the chaps inside no end of a time getting out.”</p>
			<p>“That’s the thing. We’ll do it. We only need one other chap. Leveson would come if we asked him. Let’s get back to the lines. It’s almost teatime. Tell him after tea.”</p>
			<p>Leveson proved agreeable. Indeed, he jumped at it. His life, his attitude suggested, had been a hollow mockery until he heard the plan, but now he could begin to enjoy himself once more.</p>
			<p>The lights-out bugle sounded at ten o’clock; the last post at ten-thirty. At a quarter to twelve the three adventurers, who had been keeping themselves awake by the exercise of great pains, satisfied themselves that the other occupants of the tent were asleep, and stole out.</p>
			<p>It was an excellent night for their purpose. There was no moon, and the stars were hidden by clouds.</p>
			<p>They crept silently towards the guard-tent. A dim figure loomed out of the blackness. They noted with satisfaction, as it approached, that it was small. Sentries at the public-school camp vary in physique. They felt that it was lucky that the task of sentry-go had not fallen that night to some muscular forward from one of the school fifteens, or worse still, to a boxing expert who had figured in the Aldershot competition at Easter. The present sentry would be an easy victim.</p>
			<p>They waited for him to arrive.</p>
			<p>A moment later Private Jones, of <abbr>St.</abbr> Asterisk’s⁠—for it was he⁠—turning to resume his beat, found himself tackled from behind. Two moments later he was reclining in the ditch. He would have challenged his adversary, but, unfortunately, that individual happened to be seated on his face.</p>
			<p>He struggled, but to no purpose.</p>
			<p>He was still struggling when a muffled roar of indignation from the direction of the guard-tent broke the stillness of the summer night. The roar swelled into a crescendo. What seemed like echoes came from other quarters out of the darkness. The camp was waking.</p>
			<p>The noise from the guard-tent waxed louder.</p>
			<p>The unknown marauder rose from his seat on Private Jones, and vanished.</p>
			<p>Private Jones also rose. He climbed out of the ditch, shook himself, looked round for his assailant, and, not finding him, hurried to the guard-tent to see what was happening.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
