<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII: Kennedy Interviews Walton</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Kennedy Interviews Walton</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“I’m very sorry,” he said, when he rejoined the shivering group, “but I’m afraid we shall have to call this match off. There seems to have been a mistake. None of my team are anywhere about. I’m awfully sorry, sir,” he added, to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn, “to have given you all this trouble for nothing.”</p>
			<p>“Not at all, Kennedy. We must try another day.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn suspected that something untoward had happened in Kay’s to cause this sudden defection of the first fifteen of the house. He knew that Kennedy was having a hard time in his new position, and he did not wish to add to his discomfort by calling for an explanation before an audience. It could not be pleasant for Kennedy to feel that his enemies had scored off him. It was best to preserve a discreet silence with regard to the whole affair, and leave him to settle it for himself.</p>
			<p>Jimmy Silver was more curious. He took Kennedy off to tea in his study, sat him down in the best chair in front of the fire, and proceeded to urge him to confess everything.</p>
			<p>“Now, then, what’s it all about?” he asked, briskly, spearing a muffin on the fork and beginning to toast.</p>
			<p>“It’s no good asking me,” said Kennedy. “I suppose it’s a put-up job to make me look a fool. I ought to have known something of this kind would happen when I saw what they did to my first notice.”</p>
			<p>“What was that?”</p>
			<p>Kennedy explained.</p>
			<p>“This is getting thrilling,” said Jimmy. “Just pass that plate. Thanks. What are you going to do about it?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. What would you do?”</p>
			<p>“My dear chap, I’d first find out who was at the bottom of it⁠—there’s bound to be one man who started the whole thing⁠—and I’d make it my aim in life to give him the warmest ten minutes he’d ever had.”</p>
			<p>“That sounds all right. But how would you set about it?”</p>
			<p>“Why, touch him up, of course. What else would you do? Before the whole house, too.”</p>
			<p>“Supposing he wouldn’t be touched up?”</p>
			<p>“Wouldn’t <em>be</em>! He’d have to.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t know Kay’s, Jimmy. You’re thinking what you’d do if this had happened in Blackburn’s. The two things aren’t the same. Here the man would probably take it like a lamb. The feeling of the house would be against him. He’d find nobody to back him up. That’s because Blackburn’s is a decent house instead of being a sink like Kay’s. If I tried the touching-up before the whole house game with our chaps, the man would probably reply by going for me, assisted by the whole strength of the company.”</p>
			<p>“Well, dash it all then, all you’ve got to do is to call a prefects’ meeting, and he’ll get ten times worse beans from them than he’d have got from you. It’s simple.”</p>
			<p>Kennedy stared into the fire pensively.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” he said. “I bar that prefects’ meeting business. It always seems rather feeble to me, lugging in a lot of chaps to help settle someone you can’t manage yourself. I want to carry this job through on my own.”</p>
			<p>“Then you’d better scrap with the man.”</p>
			<p>“I think I will.”</p>
			<p>Silver stared.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be an ass,” he said. “I was only rotting. You can’t go fighting all over the shop as if you were a fag. You’d lose your prefect’s cap if it came out.”</p>
			<p>“I could wear my topper,” said Kennedy, with a grin. “You see,” he added, “I’ve not much choice. I must do something. If I took no notice of this business there’d be no holding the house. I should be ragged to death. It’s no good talking about it. Personally, I should prefer touching the chap up to fighting him, and I shall try it on. But he’s not likely to meet me halfway. And if he doesn’t there’ll be an interesting turn-up, and you shall hold the watch. I’ll send a kid round to fetch you when things look like starting. I must go now to interview my missing men. So long. Mind you slip round directly I send for you.”</p>
			<p>“Wait a second. Don’t be in such a beastly hurry. Who’s the chap you’re going to fight?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know yet. Walton, I should think. But I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>“Walton! By Jove, it’ll be worth seeing, anyhow, if we <em>are</em> both sacked for it when the Old Man finds out.”</p>
			<p>Kennedy returned to his study and changed his football boots for a pair of gymnasium shoes. For the job he had in hand it was necessary that he should move quickly, and football boots are a nuisance on a board floor. When he had changed, he called Spencer.</p>
			<p>“Go down to the senior dayroom,” he said, “and tell MacPherson I want to see him.”</p>
			<p>MacPherson was a long, weak-looking youth. He had been put down to play for the house that day, and had not appeared.</p>
			<p>“MacPherson!” said the fag, in a tone of astonishment, “not Walton?”</p>
			<p>He had been looking forward to the meeting between Kennedy and his ancient foe, and to have a miserable being like MacPherson offered as a substitute disgusted him.</p>
			<p>“If you have no objection,” said Kennedy, politely, “I may want you to fetch Walton later on.”</p>
			<p>Spencer vanished, hopeful once more.</p>
			<p>“Come in, MacPherson,” said Kennedy, on the arrival of the long one; “shut the door.”</p>
			<p>MacPherson did so, feeling as if he were paying a visit to the dentist. As long as there had been others with him in this affair he had looked on it as a splendid idea. But to be singled out like this was quite a different thing.</p>
			<p>“Now,” said Kennedy, “Why weren’t you on the field this afternoon?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—er⁠—I was kept in.”</p>
			<p>“How long?”</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—er⁠—till about five.”</p>
			<p>“What do you call about five?”</p>
			<p>“About twenty-five to,” he replied, despondently.</p>
			<p>“Now look here,” said Kennedy, briskly, “I’m just going to explain to you exactly how I stand in this business, so you’d better attend. I didn’t ask to be made head of this sewage depot. If I could have had any choice, I wouldn’t have touched a Kayite with a barge-pole. But since I am head, I’m going to be it, and the sooner you and your senior dayroom crew realise it the better. This sort of thing isn’t going on. I want to know now who it was put up this job. You wouldn’t have the cheek to start a thing like this yourself. Who was it?”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠—er⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You’d better say, and be quick, too. I can’t wait. Whoever it was. I shan’t tell him you told me. And I shan’t tell Kay. So now you can go ahead. Who was it?”</p>
			<p>“Well⁠—er⁠—Walton.”</p>
			<p>“I thought so. Now you can get out. If you see Spencer, send him here.”</p>
			<p>Spencer, curiously enough, was just outside the door. So close to it, indeed, that he almost tumbled in when MacPherson opened it.</p>
			<p>“Go and fetch Walton,” said Kennedy.</p>
			<p>Spencer dashed off delightedly, and in a couple of minutes Walton appeared. He walked in with an air of subdued defiance, and slammed the door.</p>
			<p>“Don’t bang the door like that,” said Kennedy. “Why didn’t you turn out today?”</p>
			<p>“I was kept in.”</p>
			<p>“Couldn’t you get out in time to play?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“When did you get out?”</p>
			<p>“Six.”</p>
			<p>“Not before?”</p>
			<p>“I said six.”</p>
			<p>“Then how did you manage to go down town⁠—without leave, by the way, but that’s a detail⁠—at half-past five?”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Walton; “better call me a liar.”</p>
			<p>“Good suggestion,” said Kennedy, cheerfully; “I will.”</p>
			<p>“It’s all very well,” said Walton. “You know jolly well you can say anything you like. I can’t do anything to you. You’d have me up before the prefects.”</p>
			<p>“Not a bit of it. This is a private affair between ourselves. I’m not going to drag the prefects into it. You seem to want to make this house worse than it is. I want to make it more or less decent. We can’t both have what we want.”</p>
			<p>There was a pause.</p>
			<p>“When would it be convenient for you to be touched up before the whole house?” inquired Kennedy, pleasantly.</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“Well, you see, it seems the only thing. I must take it out of someone for this house-match business, and you started it. Will tonight suit you, after supper?”</p>
			<p>“You’ll get it hot if you try to touch me.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll see.”</p>
			<p>“You’d funk taking me on in a scrap,” said Walton.</p>
			<p>“Would I? As a matter of fact, a scrap would suit me just as well. Better. Are you ready now?”</p>
			<p>“Quite, thanks,” sneered Walton. “I’ve knocked you out before, and I’ll do it again.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, then it was you that night at camp? I thought so. I spotted your style. Hitting a chap when he wasn’t ready, you know, and so on. Now, if you’ll wait a minute, I’ll send across to Blackburn’s for Silver. I told him I should probably want him as a timekeeper tonight.”</p>
			<p>“What do you want with Silver. Why won’t Perry do?”</p>
			<p>“Thanks, I’m afraid Perry’s timekeeping wouldn’t be impartial enough. Silver, I think, if you don’t mind.”</p>
			<p>Spencer was summoned once more, and despatched to Blackburn’s. He returned with Jimmy.</p>
			<p>“Come in, Jimmy,” said Kennedy. “Run away, Spencer. Walton and I are just going to settle a point of order which has arisen, Jimmy. Will you hold the watch? We ought just to have time before tea.”</p>
			<p>“Where?” asked Silver.</p>
			<p>“My dormitory would be the best place. We can move the beds. I’ll go and get the keys.”</p>
			<p>Kennedy’s dormitory was the largest in the house. After the beds had been moved back, there was a space in the middle of fifteen feet one way, and twelve the other⁠—not a large ring, but large enough for two fighters who meant business.</p>
			<p>Walton took off his coat, waistcoat, and shirt. Kennedy, who was still in football clothes, removed his blazer.</p>
			<p>“Half a second,” said Jimmy Silver⁠—“what length rounds?”</p>
			<p>“Two minutes?” said Kennedy to Walton.</p>
			<p>“All right,” growled Walton.</p>
			<p>“Two minutes, then, and half a minute in between.”</p>
			<p>“Are you both ready?” asked Jimmy, from his seat on the chest of drawers.</p>
			<p>Kennedy and Walton advanced into the middle of the impromptu ring.</p>
			<p>There was dead silence for a moment.</p>
			<p>“Time!” said Jimmy Silver.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
