<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV: Down Town</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Down Town</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Fenn arrived at the theatre a quarter of an hour before the curtain rose. Going down a gloomy alley of the High Street, he found himself at the stage door, where he made inquiries of a depressed-looking man with a bad cold in the head as to the whereabouts of his brother. It seemed that he was with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs. If he would wait, said the doorkeeper, his name should be sent up. Fenn waited, while the doorkeeper made polite conversation by describing his symptoms to him in a hoarse growl. Presently the minion who had been despatched to the upper regions with Fenn’s message returned. Would he go upstairs, third door on the left. Fenn followed the instructions, and found himself in a small room, a third of which was filled by a huge iron-bound chest, another third by a very stout man and a dressing-table, while the rest of the space was comparatively empty, being occupied by a wooden chair with three legs. On this seat his brother was trying to balance himself, giving what part of his attention was not required for this feat to listening to some story the fat man was telling him. Fenn had heard his deep voice booming as he went up the passage.</p>
			<p>His brother did the honours.</p>
			<p>“Glad to see you, glad to see you,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs, for the fat man was none other than that celebrity. “Take a seat.”</p>
			<p>Fenn sat down on the chest and promptly tore his trousers on a jagged piece of iron.</p>
			<p>“These provincial dressing rooms!” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs, by way of comment. “No room! Never any room! No chairs! Nothing!”</p>
			<p>He spoke in short, quick sentences, and gasped between each. Fenn said it really didn’t matter⁠—he was quite comfortable.</p>
			<p>“Haven’t they done anything about it?” asked Fenn’s brother, resuming the conversation which Fenn’s entrance had interrupted. “We’ve been having a burglary here,” he explained. “Somebody got into the theatre last night through a window. I don’t know what they expected to find.”</p>
			<p>“Why,” said Fenn, “we’ve had a burglar up our way too. Chap broke into the school house and went through the old man’s drawing-room. The school house men have been talking about nothing else ever since. I wonder if it’s the same crew.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs turned in his chair, and waved a stick of grease paint impressively to emphasise his point.</p>
			<p>“There,” he said. “There! What I’ve been saying all along. No doubt of it. Organised gang. And what are the police doing? Nothing, sir, nothing. Making inquiries. Rot! What’s the good of inquiries?”</p>
			<p>Fenn’s brother suggested mildly that inquiries were a good beginning. You <em>must</em> start somehow. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs scouted the idea.</p>
			<p>“There ought not to be any doubt, sir. They ought to <em>know</em>. To <strong>KNOW</strong>,” he added, with firmness.</p>
			<p>At this point there filtered through the closed doors the strains of the opening chorus.</p>
			<p>“By Jove, it’s begun!” said Fenn’s brother. “Come on, Bob.”</p>
			<p>“Where are we going to?” asked Fenn, as he followed. “The wings?”</p>
			<p>But it seemed that the rules of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs’ company prevented any outsider taking up his position in that desirable quarter. The only place from which it was possible to watch the performance, except by going to the front of the house, was the “flies,” situated near the roof of the building.</p>
			<p>Fenn found all the pleasures of novelty in watching the players from this lofty position. Judged by the cold light of reason, it was not the best place from which to see a play. It was possible to gain only a very foreshortened view of the actors. But it was a change after sitting “in front.”</p>
			<p>The piece was progressing merrily. The gifted author, at first silent and pale, began now to show signs of gratification. Now and again he chuckled as some jeu de mots hit the mark and drew a quick gust of laughter from the unseen audience. Occasionally he would nudge Fenn to draw his attention to some good bit of dialogue which was approaching. He was obviously enjoying himself.</p>
			<p>The advent of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs completed his satisfaction, for the audience greeted the comedian with roars of applause. As a rule Eckleton took its drama through the medium of third-rate touring companies, which came down with plays that had not managed to attract London to any great extent, and were trying to make up for failures in the metropolis by long tours in the provinces. It was seldom that an actor of the Higgs type paid the town a visit, and in a play, too, which had positively never appeared before on any stage. Eckleton appreciated the compliment.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” said Fenn’s brother. “Isn’t that just the part for him? It’s just like he was in the dressing room, eh? Short sentences and everything. The funny part of it is that I didn’t know the man when I wrote the play. It was all luck.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Higgs’ performance sealed the success of the piece. The house laughed at everything he said. He sang a song in his gasping way, and they laughed still more. Fenn’s brother became incoherent with delight. The verdict of Eckleton was hardly likely to affect London theatregoers, but it was very pleasant notwithstanding. Like every playwright with his first piece, he had been haunted by the idea that his dialogue “would not act,” that, however humorous it might be to a reader, it would fall flat when spoken. There was no doubt now as to whether the lines sounded well.</p>
			<p>At the beginning of the second act the great Higgs was not on the stage, Fenn’s brother knowing enough of the game not to bring on his big man too soon. He had not to enter for ten minutes or so. The author, who had gone down to see him during the interval, stayed in the dressing room. Fenn, however, who wanted to see all of the piece that he could, went up to the “flies” again.</p>
			<p>It occurred to him when he got there that he would see more if he took the seat which his brother had been occupying. It would give him much the same view of the stage, and a wider view of the audience. He thought it would be amusing to see how the audience looked from the “flies.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. S.</abbr> Gilbert once wrote a poem about a certain bishop who, while fond of amusing himself, objected to his clergy doing likewise. And the consequence was that whenever he did so amuse himself, he was always haunted by a phantom curate, who joined him in his pleasures, much to his dismay. On one occasion he stopped to watch a Punch and Judy show,</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
				<p>
					<span>“And heard, as Punch was being treated penally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That phantom curate laughing all hyaenally.”</span>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The disgust and panic of this eminent cleric was as nothing compared with that of Fenn, when, shifting to his brother’s seat, he got the first clear view he had had of the audience. In a box to the left of the dress-circle sat, “laughing all hyaenally,” the following distinguished visitors:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mulholland of <abbr>No.</abbr> 7 College Buildings,</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Raynes of <abbr>No.</abbr> 4 ditto,<br/>
					 and</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			<p>Fenn drew back like a flash, knocking his chair over as he did so.</p>
			<p>“Giddy, sir?” said a stage hand, pleasantly. “Bless you, lots of gents is like that when they comes up here. Can’t stand the ’eight, they can’t. You’ll be all right in a jiffy.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. It⁠—it is rather high, isn’t it?” said Fenn. “Awful glare, too.”</p>
			<p>He picked up his chair and sat down well out of sight of the box. Had they seen him? he wondered. Then common sense returned to him. They could not possibly have seen him. Apart from any other reasons, he had only been in his brother’s seat for half-a-dozen seconds. No. He was all right so far. But he would have to get back to the house, and at once. With three of the staff, including his own housemaster, ranging the town, things were a trifle too warm for comfort. He wondered it had not occurred to him that, with a big attraction at the theatre, some of the staff might feel an inclination to visit it.</p>
			<p>He did not stop to say goodbye to his brother. Descending from his perch, he hurried to the stage door.</p>
			<p>“It’s in the toobs that I feel it, sir,” said the doorkeeper, as he let him out, resuming their conversation as if they had only just parted. Fenn hurried off without waiting to hear more.</p>
			<p>It was drizzling outside, and there was a fog. Not a “London particular,” but quite thick enough to make it difficult to see where one was going. People and vehicles passed him, vague phantoms in the darkness. Occasionally the former collided with him. He began to wish he had not accepted his brother’s invitation. The unexpected sight of the three masters had shaken his nerve. Till then only the romantic, adventurous side of the expedition had struck him. Now the risks began to loom larger in his mind. It was all very well, he felt, to think, as he had done, that he would be expelled if found out, but that all the same he would risk it. Detection then had seemed a remote contingency. With three masters in the offing it became at least a possibility. The melancholy case of Peter Brown seemed to him now to have a more personal significance for him.</p>
			<p>Wrapped in these reflections, he lost his way.</p>
			<p>He did not realise this for some time. It was borne in upon him when the road he was taking suddenly came to an abrupt end in a blank wall. Instead of being, as he had fancied, in the High Street, he must have branched off into some miserable blind alley.</p>
			<p>More than ever he wished he had not come. Eckleton was not a town that took up a great deal of room on the map of England, but it made up for small dimensions by the eccentricity with which it had been laid out. On a dark and foggy night, to one who knew little of its geography, it was a perfect maze.</p>
			<p>Fenn had wandered some way when the sound of someone whistling a popular music-hall song came to him through the gloom. He had never heard anything more agreeable.</p>
			<p>“I say,” he shouted at a venture, “can you tell me the way to the High Street?”</p>
			<p>The whistler stopped in the middle of a bar, and presently Fenn saw a figure sidling towards him in what struck him as a particularly furtive manner.</p>
			<p>“Wot’s thet, gav’nor?”</p>
			<p>“Can you tell me where the High Street is? I’ve lost my way.”</p>
			<p>The vague figure came closer.</p>
			<p>“ ’Igh Street? Yus; yer go⁠—”</p>
			<p>A hand shot out, Fenn felt a sharp wrench in the region of his waistcoat, and a moment later the stranger had vanished into the fog with the prefect’s watch and chain.</p>
			<p>Fenn forgot his desire to return to the High Street. He forgot everything except that he wished to catch the fugitive, maltreat him, and retrieve his property. He tore in the direction whence came the patter of retreating footsteps.</p>
			<p>There were moments when he thought he had him, when he could hear the sound of his breathing. But the fog was against him. Just as he was almost on his man’s heels, the fugitive turned sharply into a street which was moderately well lighted. Fenn turned after him. He had just time to recognise the street as his goal, the High Street, when somebody, walking unexpectedly out of the corner house, stood directly in his path. Fenn could not stop himself. He charged the man squarely, clutched him to save himself, and they fell in a heap on the pavement.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
