<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXII: Kay’s Changes Its Name</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Kay’s Changes Its Name</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>For the remaining weeks of the winter term, things went as smoothly in Kay’s as Kay would let them. That restless gentleman still continued to burst in on Kennedy from time to time with some sensational story of how he had found a fag doing what he ought not to have done. But there was a world of difference between the effect these visits had now and that which they had had when Kennedy had stood alone in the house, his hand against all men. Now that he could work off the effects of such encounters by going straight to Fenn’s study and picking the housemaster to pieces, the latter’s peculiar methods ceased to be irritating, and became funny. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay was always ferreting out the weirdest misdoings on the part of the members of his house, and rushing to Kennedy’s study to tell him about them at full length, like a rather indignant dog bringing a rat he has hunted down into a drawing-room, to display it to the company. On one occasion, when Fenn and Jimmy Silver were in Kennedy’s study, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay dashed in to complain bitterly that he had discovered that the junior dayroom kept mice in their lockers. Apparently this fact seemed to him enough to cause an epidemic of typhoid fever in the place, and he hauled Kennedy over the coals, in a speech that lasted five minutes, for not having detected this plague-spot in the house.</p>
			<p>“So that’s the celebrity at home, is it?” said Jimmy Silver, when he had gone. “I now begin to understand more or less why this house wants a new Head every two terms. Is he often taken like that?”</p>
			<p>“He’s never anything else,” said Kennedy. “Fenn keeps a list of the things he rags me about, and we have an even shilling on, each week, that he will beat the record of the previous week. At first I used to get the shilling if he lowered the record; but after a bit it struck us that it wasn’t fair, so now we take it on alternate weeks. This is my week, by the way. I think I can trouble you for that bob, Fenn?”</p>
			<p>“I wish I could make it more,” said Fenn, handing over the shilling.</p>
			<p>“What sort of things does he rag you about generally?” inquired Silver.</p>
			<p>Fenn produced a slip of paper.</p>
			<p>“Here are a few,” he said, “for this month. He came in on the 10th because he found two kids fighting. Kennedy was down town when it happened, but that made no difference. Then he caught the senior dayroom making a row of some sort. He said it was perfectly deafening; but we couldn’t hear it in our studies. I believe he goes round the house, listening at keyholes. That was on the 16th. On the 22nd he found a chap in Kennedy’s dormitory wandering about the house at one in the morning. He seemed to think that Kennedy ought to have sat up all night on the chance of somebody cutting out of the dormitory. At any rate, he ragged him. I won the weekly shilling on that; and deserved it, too.”</p>
			<p>Fenn had to go over to the gymnasium shortly after this. Jimmy Silver stayed on, talking to Kennedy.</p>
			<p>“And bar Kay,” said Jimmy, “how do you find the house doing? Any better?”</p>
			<p>“Better! It’s getting a sort of model establishment. I believe, if we keep pegging away at them, we may win some sort of a cup sooner or later.”</p>
			<p>“Well, Kay’s very nearly won the cricket cup last year. You ought to get it next season, now that you and Fenn are both in the team.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I don’t know. It’ll be a fluke if we do. Still, we’re hoping. It isn’t every house that’s got a county man in it. But we’re breaking out in another place. Don’t let it get about, for goodness’ sake, but we’re going for the sports’ cup.”</p>
			<p>“Hope you’ll get it. Blackburn’s won’t have a chance, anyhow, and I should like to see somebody get it away from the School House. They’ve had it much too long. They’re beginning to look on it as their right. But who are your men?”</p>
			<p>“Well, Fenn ought to be a cert for the hundred and the quarter, to start with.”</p>
			<p>“But the School House must get the long run, and the mile, and the half, too, probably.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. We haven’t anyone to beat Milligan, certainly. But there are the second and third places. Don’t forget those. That’s where we’re going to have a look in. There’s all sorts of unsuspected talent in Kay’s. To look at Peel, for instance, you wouldn’t think he could do the hundred in eleven, would you? Well, he can, only he’s been too slack to go in for the race at the sports, because it meant training. I had him up here and reasoned with him, and he’s promised to do his best. Eleven is good enough for second place in the hundred, don’t you think? There are lots of others in the house who can do quite decently on the track, if they try. I’ve been making strict inquiries. Kay’s are hot stuff, Jimmy. Heap big medicine. That’s what they are.”</p>
			<p>“You’re a wonderful man, Kennedy,” said Jimmy Silver. And he meant it. Kennedy’s uphill fight at Kay’s had appealed to him strongly. He himself had never known what it meant to have to manage a hostile house. He had stepped into his predecessor’s shoes at Blackburn’s much as the heir to a throne becomes king. Nobody had thought of disputing his right to the place. He was next man in; so, directly the departure of the previous head of Blackburn’s left a vacancy, he stepped into it, and the machinery of the house had gone on as smoothly as if there had been no change at all. But Kennedy had gone in against a slack and antagonistic house, with weak prefects to help him, and a fussy housemaster; and he had fought them all for a term, and looked like winning. Jimmy admired his friend with a fervour which nothing on earth would have tempted him to reveal. Like most people with a sense of humour, he had a fear of appearing ridiculous, and he hid his real feelings as completely as he was able.</p>
			<p>“How is the footer getting on?” inquired Jimmy, remembering the difficulties Kennedy had encountered earlier in the term in connection with his house team.</p>
			<p>“It’s better,” said Kennedy. “Keener, at any rate. We shall do our best in the house-matches. But we aren’t a good team.”</p>
			<p>“Any more trouble about your being captain instead of Fenn?”</p>
			<p>“No. We both sign the lists now. Fenn didn’t want to, but I thought it would be a good idea, so we tried it. It seems to have worked all right.”</p>
			<p>“Of course, your getting your first has probably made a difference.”</p>
			<p>“A bit, perhaps.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I hope you won’t get the footer cup, because I want it for Blackburn’s. Or the cricket cup. I want that, too. But you can have the sports’ cup with my blessing.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks,” said Kennedy. “It’s very generous of you.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t mention it,” said Jimmy.</p>
			<p>From which conversation it will be seen that Kay’s was gradually pulling itself together. It had been asleep for years. It was now waking up.</p>
			<p>When the winter term ended, there were distinct symptoms of an outbreak of public spirit in the house.</p>
			<p>The Easter term opened auspiciously in one way. Neither Walton nor Perry returned. The former had been snapped up in the middle of the holidays⁠—to his enormous disgust⁠—by a bank, which wanted his services so much that it was prepared to pay him 40 pounds a year simply to enter the addresses of its outgoing letters in a book, and post them when he had completed this ceremony. After a spell of this he might hope to be transferred to another sphere of bank life and thought, and at the end of his first year he might even hope for a rise in his salary of ten pounds, if his conduct was good, and he had not been late on more than twenty mornings in the year. I am aware that in a properly-regulated story of school-life Walton would have gone to the Eckleton races, returned in a state of speechless intoxication, and been summarily expelled; but facts are facts, and must not be tampered with. The ingenious but not industrious Perry had been superannuated. For three years he had been in the Lower Fourth. Probably the master of that form went to the Head, and said that his constitution would not stand another year of him, and that either he or Perry must go. So Perry had departed. Like a poor play, he had “failed to attract,” and was withdrawn. There was also another departure of an even more momentous nature.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay had left Eckleton.</p>
			<p>Kennedy was no longer head of Kay’s. He was now head of Dencroft’s.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dencroft was one of the most popular masters in the school. He was a keen athlete and a tactful master. Fenn and Kennedy knew him well, through having played at the nets and in scratch games with him. They both liked him. If Kennedy had had to select a housemaster, he would have chosen <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn first. But <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dencroft would have been easily second.</p>
			<p>Fenn learned the facts from the matron, and detailed them to Kennedy.</p>
			<p>“Kay got the offer of a headmastership at a small school in the north, and jumped at it. I pity the fellows there. They are going to have a lively time.”</p>
			<p>“I’m jolly glad Dencroft has got the house,” said Kennedy. “We might have had some awful rotter put in. Dencroft will help us buck up the house games.”</p>
			<p>The new housemaster sent for Kennedy on the first evening of term. He wished to find out how the Head of the house and the ex-Head stood with regard to one another. He knew the circumstances, and comprehended vaguely that there had been trouble.</p>
			<p>“I hope we shall have a good term,” he said.</p>
			<p>“I hope so, sir,” said Kennedy.</p>
			<p>“You⁠—er⁠—you think the house is keener, Kennedy, than when you first came in?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir. They are getting quite keen now. We might win the sports.”</p>
			<p>“I hope we shall. I wish we could win the football cup, too, but I am afraid <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn’s are very heavy metal.”</p>
			<p>“It’s hardly likely we shall have very much chance with them; but we might get into the final!”</p>
			<p>“It would be an excellent thing for the house if we could. I hope Fenn is helping you get the team into shape?” he added.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, sir,” said Kennedy. “We share the captaincy. We both sign the lists.”</p>
			<p>“A very good idea,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dencroft, relieved. “Good night, Kennedy.”</p>
			<p>“Good night, sir,” said Kennedy.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
