<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVII: Fenn Hunts for Himself</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Fenn Hunts for Himself</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Nobody knows for certain the feelings of the camel when his proprietor placed that last straw on his back. The incident happened so long ago. If it had occurred in modern times, he would probably have contributed a firsthand report to the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Daily Mail</i>. But it is very likely that he felt on that occasion exactly as Fenn felt when, after a night of unparalleled misadventure, he found that somebody had cut off his retreat by latching the window. After a gruelling race Fate had just beaten him on the tape.</p>
			<p>There was no doubt about its being latched. The sash had not merely stuck. He put all he knew into the effort to raise it, but without a hint of success. After three attempts he climbed down again and, sitting on the garden-seat, began to review his position.</p>
			<p>If one has an active mind and a fair degree of optimism, the effect of the “staggerers” administered by Fate passes off after a while. Fenn had both. The consequence was that, after ten minutes of grey despair, he was relieved by a faint hope that there might be some other way into the house than through his study. Anyhow, it would be worth while to investigate.</p>
			<p>His study was at the side of the house. At the back were the kitchen, the scullery, and the dining-room, and above these more studies and a couple of dormitories. As a last resort he might fling rocks and other solids at the windows until he woke somebody up. But he did not feel like trying this plan until every other had failed. He had no desire to let a garrulous dormitory into the secret of his wanderings. What he hoped was that he might find one of the lower windows open.</p>
			<p>And so he did.</p>
			<p>As he turned the corner of the house he saw what he had been looking for. The very first window was wide open. His spirits shot up, and for the first time since he had left the theatre he was conscious of taking a pleasure in his adventurous career. Fate was with him after all. He could not help smiling as he remembered how he had felt during that ten minutes on the garden-seat, when the future seemed blank and devoid of any comfort whatsoever. And all the time he could have got in without an effort, if he had only thought of walking half a dozen yards.</p>
			<p>Now that the way was open to him, he wasted no time. He climbed through into the dark room. He was not certain which room it was, in spite of his lengthy residence at Kay’s.</p>
			<p>He let himself down softly till his foot touched the floor. After a moment’s pause he moved forward a step. Then another. At the third step his knee struck the leg of a table. He must be in the dining-room. If so, he was all right. He could find his way up to his room with his eyes shut. It was easy to find out for certain. The walls of the dining-room at Kay’s, as in the other houses, were covered with photographs. He walked gingerly in the direction in which he imagined the nearest wall to be, reached it, and passed his hand along it. Yes, there were photographs. Then all he had to do was to find the table again, make his way along it, and when he got to the end the door would be a yard or so to his left. The programme seemed simple and attractive. But it was added to in a manner which he had not foreseen. Feeling his way back to the table, he upset a chair. If he had upset a cartload of coal on to a sheet of tin it could not, so it seemed to him in the disordered state of his nerves, have made more noise. It went down with an appalling crash, striking the table on its way. “This,” thought Fenn, savagely, as he waited, listening, “is where I get collared. What a fool I am to barge about like this.”</p>
			<p>He felt that the echoes of that crash must have penetrated to every corner of the house. But no one came. Perhaps, after all, the noise had not been so great. He proceeded on his journey down the table, feeling every inch of the way. The place seemed one bristling mass of chairs. But, by the exercise of consummate caution, he upset no more and won through at last in safety to the door.</p>
			<p>It was at this point that the really lively and exciting part of his adventure began. Compared with what was to follow, his evening had been up to the present dull and monotonous.</p>
			<p>As he opened the door there was a sudden stir and crash at the other end of the room. Fenn had upset one chair and the noise had nearly deafened him. Now chairs seemed to be falling in dozens. Bang! Bang! Crash!! (two that time). And then somebody shot through the window like a harlequin and dashed away across the lawn. Fenn could hear his footsteps thudding on the soft turf. And at the same moment other footsteps made themselves heard.</p>
			<p>Somebody was coming downstairs.</p>
			<p>“Who is that? Is anybody there?”</p>
			<p>It was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay’s voice, unmistakably nervous. Fenn darted from the door and across the passage. At the other side was a boot-cupboard. It was his only refuge in that direction. What he ought to have done was to leave the dining-room by the opposite door, which led via a corridor to the junior dayroom. But he lost his head, and instead of bolting away from the enemy, went towards him.</p>
			<p>The stairs down which <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay was approaching were at the end of the passage. To reach the dining-room one turned to the right. Beyond the stairs on the left the passage ended in a wall, so that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay was bound to take the right direction in the search. Fenn wondered if he had a pistol. Not that he cared very much. If the housemaster was going to find him, it would be very little extra discomfort to be shot at. And <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay’s talents as a marksman were in all probability limited to picking off sitting haystacks. The important point was that he had a candle. A faint yellow glow preceded him down the stairs. Playing hide-and-seek with him in the dark, Fenn might have slipped past in safety; but the candle made that impossible.</p>
			<p>He found the boot-room door and slipped through just as <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay turned the corner. With a thrill of pleasure he found that there was a key inside. He turned it as quietly as he could, but nevertheless it grated. Having done this, and seeing nothing else that he could do except await developments, he sat down on the floor among the boots. It was not a dignified position for a man who had played for his county while still at school, but just then he would not have exchanged it for a throne⁠—if the throne had been placed in the passage or the dining-room.</p>
			<p>The only question was⁠—had he been seen or heard? He thought not; but his heart began to beat furiously as the footsteps stopped outside the cupboard door and unseen fingers rattled the handle.</p>
			<p>Twice <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay tried the handle, but, finding the cupboard locked, passed on into the dining-room. The light of the candle ceased to shine under the door, and Fenn was once more in inky darkness.</p>
			<p>He listened intently. A minute later he had made his second mistake. Instead of waiting, as he should have done, until <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay had retired for good, he unlocked the door directly he had passed, and when a muffled crash told him that the housemaster was in the dining-room among the chairs, out he came and fled softly upstairs towards his bedroom. He thought that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay might possibly take it into his head to go round the dormitories to make certain that all the members of his house were in. In which case all would be discovered.</p>
			<p>When he reached his room he began to fling off his clothes with feverish haste. Once in bed all would be well.</p>
			<p>He had got out of his boots, his coat, and his waistcoat, and was beginning to feel that electric sensation of triumph which only conies to the man who <em>just</em> pulls through, when he heard <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay coming down the corridor towards his room. The burglar-hunter, returning from the dining-room in the full belief that the miscreant had escaped through the open window, had had all his ardour for the chase redoubled by the sight of the cupboard door, which Fenn in his hurry had not remembered to close. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay had made certain by two separate trials that that door had been locked. And now it was wide open. Ergo, the apostle of the jemmy and the skeleton key must still be in the house. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, secure in the recollection that burglars never show fight if they can possibly help it, determined to search the house.</p>
			<p>Fenn made up his mind swiftly. There was no time to finish dressing. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, peering round, might note the absence of the rest of his clothes from their accustomed pegs if he got into bed as he was. There was only one thing to be done. He threw back the bedclothes, ruffled the sheets till the bed looked as if it had been slept in, and opened the door just as <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay reached the threshold.</p>
			<p>“Anything the matter, sir?” asked Fenn, promptly. “I heard a noise downstairs. Can I help you?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay looked carefully at the ex-head of his house. Fenn was a finely-developed youth. He stood six feet, and all of him that was not bone was muscle. A useful colleague to have by one in a hunt for a possibly ferocious burglar.</p>
			<p>So thought <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay.</p>
			<p>“So <em>you</em> heard the noise?” he said. “Well, perhaps you had better come with me. There is no doubt that a burglar has entered the house tonight, in spite of the fact that I locked all the windows myself. Your study window was unlocked, Fenn. It was extremely careless of you to leave it in such a condition, and I hope you will be more careful in future. Why, somebody might have got in through it.”</p>
			<p>Fenn thought it was not at all unlikely.</p>
			<p>“Come along, then. I am sure the man is still in the house. He was hiding in the cupboard by the dining-room. I know it. I am sure he is still in the house.”</p>
			<p>But, in spite of the fact that Fenn was equally sure, half an hour’s search failed to discover any lurking evildoer.</p>
			<p>“You had better go to bed, Fenn,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, disgustedly, at the end of that period. “He must have got back in some extraordinary manner.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” agreed Fenn.</p>
			<p>He himself had certainly got back in a very extraordinary manner.</p>
			<p>However, he <em>had</em> got back, which was the main point.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
