<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>II: An Evening at Kay’s</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">An Evening at Kay’s</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>They turned, and began to walk towards the houses. Kennedy felt miserable. He never allowed himself to be put out, to any great extent, by his own worries, which, indeed, had not been very numerous up to the present, but the misfortunes of his friends always troubled him exceedingly. When anything happened to him personally, he found the discomfort of being in a tight place largely counterbalanced by the excitement of trying to find a way out. But the impossibility of helping Fenn in any way depressed him.</p>
			<p>“It must be awful,” he said, breaking the silence.</p>
			<p>“It is,” said Fenn, briefly.</p>
			<p>“But haven’t the house-matches made any difference? Blackburn’s always frightfully bucked when the house does anything. You can do anything you like with him if you lift a cup. I should have thought Kay would have been all right when he saw you knocking up centuries, and getting into the final, and all that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>Fenn laughed.</p>
			<p>“Kay!” he said. “My dear man, he doesn’t <em>know</em>. I don’t suppose he’s got the remotest idea that we are in the final at all, or, if he has, he doesn’t understand what being in the final means.”</p>
			<p>“But surely he’ll be glad if you lick us tomorrow?” asked Kennedy. Such indifference on the part of a housemaster respecting the fortunes of his house seemed to him, having before him the bright example of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn, almost incredible.</p>
			<p>“I don’t suppose so,” said Fenn. “Or, if he is, I’ll bet he doesn’t show it. He’s not like Blackburn. I wish he was. Here he comes, so perhaps we’d better talk about something else.”</p>
			<p>The vanguard of the boys returning from preparation had passed them, and they were now standing at the gate of the house. As Fenn spoke, a little, restless-looking man in cap and gown came up. His clean-shaven face wore an expression of extreme alertness⁠—the sort of look a ferret wears as he slips in at the mouth of a rabbit-hole. A doctor, called upon to sum up <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay at a glance, would probably have said that he suffered from nerves, which would have been a perfectly correct diagnosis, though none of the members of his house put his manners and customs down to that cause. They considered that the methods he pursued in the management of the house were the outcome of a naturally malignant disposition. This was, however, not the case. There is no reason to suppose that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay did not mean well. But there is no doubt that he was extremely fussy. And fussiness⁠—with the possible exceptions of homicidal mania and a taste for arson⁠—is quite the worst characteristic it is possible for a housemaster to possess.</p>
			<p>He caught sight of Fenn and Kennedy at the gate, and stopped in his stride.</p>
			<p>“What are you doing here, Fenn?” he asked, with an abruptness which brought a flush to the latter’s face. “Why are you outside the house?”</p>
			<p>Kennedy began to understand why it was that his friend felt so strongly on the subject of his housemaster. If this was the sort of thing that happened every day, no wonder that there was dissension in the house of Kay. He tried to imagine Blackburn speaking in that way to Jimmy Silver or himself, but his imagination was unequal to the task. Between <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn and his prefects there existed a perfect understanding. He relied on them to see that order was kept, and they acted accordingly. Fenn, by the exercise of considerable self-control, had always been scrupulously polite to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay.</p>
			<p>“I came out to get some fresh air before lockup, sir,” he replied.</p>
			<p>“Well, go in. Go in at once. I cannot allow you to be outside the house at this hour. Go indoors directly.”</p>
			<p>Kennedy expected a scene, but Fenn took it quite quietly.</p>
			<p>“Good night, Kennedy,” he said.</p>
			<p>“So long,” said Kennedy.</p>
			<p>Fenn caught his eye, and smiled painfully. Then he turned and went into the house.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay’s zeal for reform was apparently still unsatisfied. He directed his batteries towards Kennedy.</p>
			<p>“Go to your house at once, Kennedy. You have no business out here at this time.”</p>
			<p>This, thought Kennedy, was getting a bit too warm. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay might do as he pleased with his own house, but he was hanged if he was going to trample on <em>him</em>.</p>
			<p>“<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn is my housemaster, sir,” he said with great respect.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay stared.</p>
			<p>“My housemaster,” continued Kennedy with gusto, slightly emphasising the first word, “knows that I always go out just before lockup, and he has no objection.”</p>
			<p>And, to emphasise this point, he walked towards the school buildings again. For a moment it seemed as if <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay intended to call him back, but he thought better of it. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Blackburn, in normal circumstances a pacific man, had one touchy point⁠—his house. He resented any interference with its management, and was in the habit of saying so. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay remembered one painful scene in the Masters’ Common Room, when he had ventured to let fall a few well-meant hints as to how a house should be ruled. Really, he had thought Blackburn would have choked. Better, perhaps, to leave him to look after his own affairs.</p>
			<p>So <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay followed Fenn indoors, and Kennedy, having watched him vanish, made his way to Blackburn’s.</p>
			<p>Quietly as Fenn had taken the incident at the gate, it nevertheless rankled. He read prayers that night in a distinctly unprayerful mood. It seemed to him that it would be lucky if he could get through to the end of the term before <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay applied that last straw which does not break the backs of camels only. Eight weeks’ holiday, with plenty of cricket, would brace him up for another term. And he had been invited to play for the county against Middlesex four days after the holidays began. That should have been a soothing thought. But it really seemed to make matters worse. It was hard that a man who on Monday would be bowling against Warner and Beldam, or standing up to Trott and Hearne, should on the preceding Tuesday be sent indoors like a naughty child by a man who stood five-feet-one in his boots, and was devoid of any sort of merit whatever.</p>
			<p>It seemed to him that it would help him to sleep peacefully that night if he worked off a little of his just indignation upon somebody. There was a noise going on in the fags’ room. There always was at Kay’s. It was not a particularly noisy noise⁠—considering; but it had better be stopped. Badly as Kay had treated him, he remembered that he was head of the house, and as such it behoved him to keep order in the house.</p>
			<p>He went downstairs, and, on arriving on the scene of action, found that the fags were engaged upon spirited festivities, partly in honour of the near approach of the summer holidays, partly because⁠—miracles barred⁠—the house was going on the morrow to lift the cricket-cup. There were a good many books flying about, and not a few slippers. There was a confused mass rolling in combat on the floor, and the table was occupied by a scarlet-faced individual, who passed the time by kicking violently at certain hands, which were endeavouring to drag him from his post, and shrieking frenzied abuse at the owners of the said hands. It was an animated scene, and to a deaf man might have been most enjoyable.</p>
			<p>Fenn’s appearance was the signal for a temporary suspension of hostilities.</p>
			<p>“What the dickens is all this row about?” he inquired.</p>
			<p>No one seemed ready at the moment with a concise explanation. There was an awkward silence. One or two of the weaker spirits even went so far as to sit down and begin to read. All would have been well but for a bright idea which struck some undiscovered youth at the back of the room.</p>
			<p>“Three cheers for Fenn!” observed this genial spirit, in no uncertain voice.</p>
			<p>The idea caught on. It was just what was wanted to give a finish to the evening’s festivities. Fenn had done well by the house. He had scored four centuries and an eighty, and was going to knock off the runs against Blackburn’s tomorrow off his own bat. Also, he had taken eighteen wickets in the final house-match. Obviously Fenn was a person deserving of all encouragement. It would be a pity to let him think that his effort had passed unnoticed by the fags’ room. Happy thought! Three cheers and one more, and then “He’s a jolly good fellow,” to wind up with.</p>
			<p>It was while those familiar words, “It’s a way we have in the public scho-o-o-o-l-s,” were echoing through the room in various keys, that a small and energetic form brushed past Fenn as he stood in the doorway, vainly trying to stop the fags’ choral efforts.</p>
			<p>It was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay.</p>
			<p>The singing ceased gradually, very gradually. It was some time before <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay could make himself heard. But after a couple of minutes there was a lull, and the housemaster’s address began to be audible.</p>
			<p>“… unendurable noise. What is the meaning of it? I will not have it. Do you hear? It is disgraceful. Every boy in this room will write me two hundred lines by tomorrow evening. It is abominable, Fenn.” He wheeled round towards the head of the house. “Fenn, I am surprised at you standing here and allowing such a disgraceful disturbance to go on. Really, if you cannot keep order better⁠—It is disgraceful, disgraceful.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay shot out of the room. Fenn followed in his wake, and the procession made its way to the housemasters’ study. It had been a near thing, but the last straw had arrived before the holidays.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay wheeled round as he reached his study door.</p>
			<p>“Well, Fenn?”</p>
			<p>Fenn said nothing.</p>
			<p>“Have you anything you wish to say, Fenn?”</p>
			<p>“I thought you might have something to say to me, sir.”</p>
			<p>“I do not understand you, Fenn.”</p>
			<p>“I thought you might wish to apologise for slanging me in front of the fags.”</p>
			<p>It is wonderful what a difference the last straw will make in one’s demeanour to a person.</p>
			<p>“Apologise! I think you forget whom it is you are speaking to.”</p>
			<p>When a master makes this well-worn remark, the wise youth realises that the time has come to close the conversation. All Fenn’s prudence, however, had gone to the four winds.</p>
			<p>“If you wanted to tell me I was not fit to be head of the house, you needn’t have done it before a roomful of fags. How do you think I can keep order in the house if you do that sort of thing?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay overcame his impulse to end the interview abruptly in order to put in a thrust.</p>
			<p>“You do not keep order in the house, Fenn,” he said, acidly.</p>
			<p>“I do when I am not interfered with.”</p>
			<p>“You will be good enough to say ‘sir’ when you speak to me, Fenn,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay, thereby scoring another point. In the stress of the moment, Fenn had not noticed the omission.</p>
			<p>He was silenced. And before he could recover himself, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kay was in his study, and there was a closed, forbidding door between them.</p>
			<p>And as he stared at it, it began slowly to dawn upon Fenn that he had not shown up to advantage in the recent interview. In a word, he had made a fool of himself.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
